In the last lecture we have been talking about the integral image approach and we have come to the conclusion
that we are able to do the algorithm.
OK so far so good but there are way too many features.
So even though we have managed to reduce the Ordo and squared quadratic running time complexity to all
door one costs and time complexity there are too many features to deal with and most of these features
are irrelevant and not important at all.
So somehow we should find an approach in order to select the most important and most relevant features.
And we can do it with the help of boosting.
OK so was the basic principle behind boosting is that we have lots of lots of weak learners.
In this case a weak learner has just a single hard feature.
So for example the first week learner has just a single hot feature and it is going to decide whether
the image contains a face or not based on that single feature.
The second week learner is basically another Haar feature that's going to make the final decision based
on that given feature.
The third week learner is basically another hot feature that's going to make the decision based on that
given feature then we have the next week learner with a very very simple feature and all of these are
weak learners are going to make the final decision based on a single hard feature you can pose the question
that OK if we combine lots of this week learners are we able to end up with a strong classifier.
And the answer is rodder counter-intuitive because yes we can.
So if we combine lots of lots of weak classifiers we are able to end up with a Parver full classification
algorithm and that's the main idea behind added boost.
So we just have to combine these vehicles earner's and we have these alpha para meters and the esoteric
meter is going to control that given the learner.
So the vehicle learner is not making predictions.
Then the alpha value will be very low as you can see the outer perimeter is zero.
It means that we do not care about the age X weak learner.
So if we have a very very poor hard feature that's not able to detect whether the image contains a face
or not.
Dan we are just going to set the outer perimeter to be a low number.
For example 0.1 which means that we don't care about that cool feature.
So at the beginning all of these Ajax weak learners have the same weight.
OK I don't want to repeat myself over and over again but basically a weak learner is just a simple hard
feature.
There are lots of lots of features.
This is what we have been discussing in one of the previous lectures that usually there are approximately
200000 features because we can use the same characters with different sizes and different locations.
So that's why they are going to be a huge number of features.
Some of them are important features but most of them are irrelevant so not important features.
OK so we are going to use these weak learners all of them contribute to the final decision.
So whether a face is detected or not and using the training phase Viola Johnson algorithm updates the
weights of the Ajax weak learners.
So the features.
And finally we have the relevant features with higher weights.
And if we want to get the final classifier we just have to sum up these vehicles as we.
These are for parameters of course.
So the outer perimeter will decide whether we care about that given a feature or not.
OK I don't want to talk a lot about boosting because we have already discussing boosting in one of our
previous chapters.
So this is the algorithm at the beginning.
All the samples have equal weight 1 divided by n then we pick the H we call earner that minimizes the
error or this is how we can calculate the Alpha.
And then we can update the weights.
So the weight in the next iteration is going to be updated according to this formula on every iteration
or we are a new age x v learner.
So we consider another feature in order to end up with the final model.
OK so in the first iteration the first week learner is able to classify some of the images correctly
but of course there are going to be some mis classifications.
So that's why in the next iteration we are going to generate a new week learner and this week learner
is going to focus on the misclassified items.
So this is how we can select the most relevant features OK.
In the first iteration they find a feature that's able to classify given images.
Then of course we have some misclassification.
So we have to include more and more Veeck learners and of course of equal earner's means more features.
So in the next iteration the next week learner tries to classify the misclassified items.
OK.
Read the half of the new feature we are able to classify the next image.
But of course we have some misclassified items.
So we have to select the next learner in order to be able to classify all the images.
And this is how we are able to combine vehicle earners in order to end up with the fine strong the classifier
that's able to use the relevant features in order to detect faces and in order to be able to decide
whether the image contain a human face or not.
So basically this is exactly what's happening in the background when using Viola Jones Taghavi them.
There's one more stat we have to make in order to enhance this algorithm.
Thanks for watching.